All right, so
we can also use ESMs in the browser, ESM,
ESModule syntax,
the import statements and whatnot, and
export, if we put a type
module in our script tag.
Browser loves those types attributes.
So, we can use this same syntax
in a client-side script that has
type equals module.
And in node, there are a couple ways we
can tell node that we wanna use the ESM,
the ES modules, Vibe, the ES module
solution instead of CommonJS.
And one is that we can give
a different extension to our file.
So instead of .js, I could call them .mjs.
Or I can add the key type module,
the entry type module to my package.json.
So I'm gonna do that because I only have
to edit one line of code rather than
a whole bunch of file names.
So if we add type module
to our package.json,
that is going to transform
this from a thing that will
be interpreted by node as
a common js module to a thing
that will be interpreted
by node as an ES module,
allowing the different syntax that I want.
So I can, we can do, I'll just put it
right here, doesn't really matter.
There's, yeah, so and
you can see here VS code is very helpfully
auto-completing the options, and it is
good to be explicit in general, right?
Because for example, some other thing
might make a different default choice if
there is no type set, but
in this case, these days we're
likely just gonna be writing type module
a lot, so let's get friendly with it.
Okay, now that I have declared
this to be a ES module,
whoops, my gosh, I keep [LAUGH]
entering code in completely wrong places.
Type module, clear, cool, okay.
All right, so now if I run,
What I was just trying to do,
which is the script that's from
the entry point of main.js.
Before that gave me the error about,
I don't know what import,
you're trying to import and you're outside
a module, so like, now it's not a problem.
Now we just have a beautiful cow saying
some stuff, it has a very default eyes and
tongue set, but
you all can figure that out later.
So the point here is [LAUGH] there is
a big difference between, [LAUGH] well,
first of all, between the way that
node historically handles modules, and
now that most kind of modern projects
are moving towards, is that to say,
you're not gonna find a whole bunch of
requires in your node dependencies?
You definitely are.
Go poking around through node modules
you'll require all kinds of other things.
But since the browser
supports yes modules too, and
we have to be explicit about it
there also, so that it doesn't think
it's just dealing with our regular
old script tag that can't support
this type of import output system,
we need to be explicit about it.
So type module is gonna show up on
both sides of the interweb divide.
This also works now with the scripts
that I have defined in my package
JSON that are going to use the code
that I've written to run things.
So, for example,
this one I got a little cowier with.
Anyway, [LAUGH] okay, the idea here is
not to have wrapped our heads around
everything there is to know about
modules in JavaScript because again,
it's an infinite task.
But now that we're at least in a nice
moment of time where people have
generally reached a consensus
of the Mandalorian style,
this is the way forward with ES modules.
It's a lot better than when there was
a moment there where it was like,
we got to support both all the time and
everything.
So that's still a historical
fact we have to live with.
But for now, from here on out,
we're just gonna be in ES module land.